Title: Catalysis and Biocatalysis
Author: 
Date: Thu, 06 Aug 2015 07:16:00 +0200
Link: http://www.grants.gov/web/grants/view-opportunity.html?oppId=278091

Funding Opportunity Number:      PD-15-1401                                                                     
Opportunity Category:            Discretionary                                                                  
Funding Instrument Type:         Grant                                                                          
Category of Funding Activity:    Science and Technology and other Research and Development                      
CFDA Number:                     47.041                                                                         
Eligible Applicants              Unrestricted (i.e., open to any type of entity above), subject to any          
                                 clarification in text field entitled "Additional Information on Eligibility"   
Agency Name:                     NSF                                                                            
Closing Date:                    Oct 20, 2015                                                                   
Award Ceiling:                                                                                                  
Expected Number of Awards:                                                                                      
Creation Date:                   Jul 24, 2015                                                                   
Funding Opportunity Description: The goal of theCatalysis and Biocatalysisprogram is to advance research in     
                                 catalytic engineering science and promote the development of catalytic         
                                 materials and reactions that are of benefit to society. Research in this       
                                 program should focus on new basic understanding of catalytic materials and     
                                 reactions, utilizing synthetic, theoretical, and experimental approaches.      
                                 Target applications include fuels, specialty and bulk chemicals, environmental 
                                 catalysis, biomass conversion to fuels and chemicals, conversion of greenhouse 
                                 gases, and generation of solar hydrogen, as well as efficient routes to energy 
                                 utilization. Heterogeneous catalysis and biocatalysis represent the main       
                                 thrusts of the program. Proposals related to both gas-solid and liquid-solid   
                                 heterogeneous catalysis are welcome, as are proposals that incorporate concepts
                                 from homogeneous catalysis. Biocatalysis proposals should focus on enzymatic   
                                 catalysis involving engineering of the active site involved in substrate       
                                 conversion. Topic areas that are of particular interest include:               
                                                                                                                
                                   * Renewable energy-related catalysis (including applications related to      
                                 biocatalysis, biomass refining, electrocatalysis, and photocatalysis).         
                                   * Catalysis aimed at closing the carbon cycle (especially conversion of CO[2]
                                 , methane, and natural gas to fuels and chemical intermediates).               
                                   * Catalytic alternatives to traditionally non-catalytic reaction processes,  
                                 as well as new catalyst designs for established catalytic processes.           
                                   * Environmental catalysis (including energy-efficient and green routes to    
                                 fuels and chemicals).                                                          
                                   * Catalytic remediation of feedstocks, process streams, products, or         
                                 effluents.                                                                     
                                   * Commercially scalable methods of catalyst synthesis.                       
                                   * New catalytic materials and architectures (especially those substituting   
                                 earth-abundant materials for precious and noble metal catalysts).              
                                   * Basic understanding of catalytic materials, reaction pathways, kinetics,   
                                 and surface mechanisms.                                                        
                                   * Durable, poison-resistant, and easily regenerable catalyst formulations and
                                 designs.                                                                       
                                   * Advances in tools for catalyst characterization and                        
                                 theoretical/computational catalysis.                                           
                                                                                                                
                                 Projects that are interdisciplinary in nature may be jointly funded with other 
                                 CBET and NSF programs. NOTE:For catalysis proposals involving aspects of       
                                 sustainable chemistry, consider making proposal submissions to this program    
                                 (1401) with the Proposal Title as:‘SusChEM: Title of Your Proposal'. For more  
                                 information on SusChEM-related proposals click here[1]. The same applies for   
                                 proposals involving sustainable engineering. For proposals focusing more       
                                 broadly on cellular and biomolecular processes, consider submitting to         
                                 Biotechnology and Biochemical Engineering (CBET 1491). If the proposal focuses 
                                 on reaction engineering aspects of catalytic processes, submit to Process      
                                 Systems, Reaction Engineering, and Molecular Thermodynamics (CBET 1403). If the
                                 emphasis is on renewable or sustainable energy systems as a whole, with        
                                 catalysis as a sub-component, submit to Energy for Sustainability (CBET 7644). 
                                 Keep in mind that the involved program directors will review the submissions   
                                 and may transfer your proposal to give it the best review situation. Innovative
                                 proposals outside of these specific interest areas may be considered. However, 
                                 prior to submission, it is recommended that the PI contact the Program Director
                                 to avoid the possibility of the proposal being returned without review. Normal0
                                 falsefalsefalseEN-USJAX-NONE                                                   

Links: 
[1]: http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2015/nsf15085/nsf15085.jsp (link)
